# GranolaBar (Name Is a WIP)

## Introduction

GranolaBar is an online logbook where you can track various outdoor activities, such as Rock CLimbing, Kayaking, Hiking, or Snowboarding/Skiing designed to make these outdoor activities more fun than they already are by being able to track your various statistics throughout your outdoor journey.

## A Short Summary

With each entry into the Logbook, the application will sort each activity into a list, with various sorting abilities, such as Old-New, New-Old, Longest-Shortest trail length, Shortest-Longest, Longest-Shortest session time, activity type, Self-described difficulty, etc. After an entry, the application will create a data visualization depending on the activity based on distance travelled or Vertical height ( IE a kayaker rowing down a river for kayaking, a hiker hiking up a mountain, a rock climber climbing up a mountain, a snowboarder riding down a mountain) with the time of the animation's playtime correlating to the Height/Length of the activity, and a fun-fact relating to the activity (Such as "Fun Fact: This week, while rock climbing, you climbed 150 meters. That's half the height of the Eiffel Tower!"). 

With each activity, there will be many data fields corresponding to the activity. For example, Snowboarding could have data fields such as number of trails, Time spent snowboarding per trail, Trail name, length of trail, vertical ft achieved, difficulty of trail, where each trail boarded is stored, with a total of each value stored for the "Header" of the day's activity. 

Additionally, You will be able to view various graphs representing the data, such as a pie graph showing what percentage of entries you have over the week/month/6 months/year/lifetime, A bar graph representing your activity (Such as which activities logged in a month/6 months/year/5-year/Lifetime).

## Target Audience

- Enjoyers of the Outdoors
- Anyone interested in tracking their outdoor activities

## Problem Being Solved

To my knowledge, there are not too many all-encompassing applications for tracking specificly outdoors activities and providing a visualization of your "stats". As somebody who loves to Snowboard, Hike, Kayak, and Rock Climb, I would love to be able to track my stats and see how my previous activities compare to others. Also, I would like to have a log book to be able to remember interesting areas that may slip my mind without documentation.

## Core Features

- **Data Entry:** A "Header" line for the entry, with each entry being an activity of the day containing a summary of the data, such as Activity Type, date, Location Name, Total Number of Trails/Rivers/Routes, Total elapsed time, Total Distance Travelled, Total Vertical Height Achieved, average time per trail/river/route etc.

    - Upon clicking the header, an extended drop down tab will open, with the fine details of the activity shown, the name of the trail, length/height/stream of the trail/route/stream, time elapsed, difficulty etc.
    
- **Search Function:** A Search function that will search for whole/partial matches for a location name (IE all entries listed in Colorado, for example), Trail name, activity type, difficulty.

- **Quick Filter:** A Quick check-filter to filter certain entries, such as a date window or activity type, for example.

- **Data Visualization:** Various graphs for different scenarios, such as a pie graph to show what percentages of entries are which specific activity, bar graph to show the amount of entries per activity in a specific timeframe, linegraph to trace the time spent in each activity over a given time period, etc. as well as mini animations for each activity entry, showing a small visualization of the distance travelled, and giving a fun fact correspondign to the data.

## Hopeful Features

- **Online Functionality:**  Allows the application to function online, allowing competition/comparisons with friends with a Weekly/Monthly/Yearly/Lifetime leaderboard, based on each activity.
    - Point-based system calculated from the difficulty of trails/routes/rivers, length, and time spent.
    - Creation of Groups to have group-based leaderboards, as well as friends-list leaderboards, group chats, and discussion boards.
    - Picture/Video walls, Likes, Comments, Follow functions, etc. to create an outdoors community.
- **Trail Maps:**  Allow embedding links of online Trail maps, such as AllTrails, to the name of each trail.
    - Ideally, a search for the trail name and location will be automatically done on entry with an option to add the link to the trail name, but also allowing for a manual entry for the trail location.
- **Suggested Trails:** Going hand-in-hand with the previous entry, Based on your location, as well as previously entered trails locations, provides some suggested trails/rivers/routes, with more specific activities appearing based on recent entries in a 60-mile radius. 
- **Fitbit/Apple Watch Fitness Link:** Allows linking to your apple watch / Fitbit in order to track heartrate, calories burned, rings closed, distance travelled, etc.

## Tools

I am planning on using React in order to create this application, as I have been recommended it multiple times for interractive applications such as this.